So no J.S. is JavaScript or allows us to run javascript anywhere.
Now of course we can use it to write our own utility scripts like for example a script which stores
a name in a text form.
Well arguably that's not too useful but you could imagine writing a script that does way more useful
things.
Of course you also have methods to read files search directories and you could write a script which
automatically cleans up your computer which creates an audit file with all the files you added since
the last time you ran the script or whatever you want to do.
Your imagination is the limit but it's not what we're going to do here.
We want to instead you is no chance to write a web application specifically a web server which we can
use to send requests to and get back a response to create such a server.
We'll import a number core module which is part of node Chase and that's the H to the p module.
The module allows us to create a server.
It has a create server method which you can call which is of course very convenient if you want to create
a web server.
The important thing here by the way is if you were coming from something like PSP if you're used to
working with that debt with no choice you don't just write to server side logic.
So what you would have written in PSP as well but dead with no chance.
You also create a server in PSP that's different.
There you use something like Apache to run your HP code.
You don't do that and no J S instead there you use the language or the runtime itself to create the
server so creates a risk the method here and it takes one argument.
The request listener so basically a function which is triggered whenever we have an incoming request.
This gets to arguments a request and a response object.
The values for these arguments are passed in by no J.S. when such a request reaches the server creates
server then returns a server object and on that server object you can call listen a method which will
setup an event listener for such incoming requests to listen you can pass a port number in this case.
I will go with three thousand or actually let's go with five thousand because that's number we'll use
later as well.
Now this opens up local server on your machine not exposed to the Internet of course unless you're a
machine you're developing on is open to the Internet which it should not be by the way.
And then you can send requests to the server under local host colon and 5000 which is the port number
here.
Now for every request you send you will reach this function and in there we don't do anything.
Now before we populate this with some life it's important to understand that the and method here will
spin up a server which of course is an ongoing process which means it won't shut down you won't be able
to enter new commands unless you manually shut down that running process because it's an ongoing listener
which continuously waits for incoming requests.
It's all the able to handle multiple requests simultaneously which of course is a must have for a real
server.
So with that let's maybe print console log incoming request here in this function which should be triggered
for every request and let's console log request DOD method the request object is a huge object with
a lot of properties and methods and request method is a property which gives us the H to the p method
which was used for the incoming request.
We can also for example print do you are L which was used now and what we should also do for every incoming
request is send back a response.
Otherwise the browser which is sending the request will eventually throw an error when the request times
out and it will time out if you're not sending back a response.
Now for sending back a response you can use that address object and there you have the end method which
basically means I'm done configuring the response please send it back.
This method all to take some data you can send back.
So here for example we could set back some simple text success if we do so and we save this.
We can now execute this file again.
And now you'll see what I meant.
It doesn't quit.
I'm not able to enter a new command.
You can always quit manually by pressing control in C but then the server is not running anymore so
of course as long as you're developing you don't want to do that unless you change some code and you
want to restarted with the new code.
So here a will start it and keep it running.
And now let's go to the browser and there simply enter local host 5000 and visit this page and what
you should see there is this success.
Text.
And that's of course coming back from our response function here or from our request handler and the
response we're sending back.
Now it's sending back just simply in Texas boring.
Why don't we send back some H to meld code.
Of course this is not a totally valid HDMI document because I'm missing H Tim Allen's on but the browser
will still be able to render it.
So here I'm sitting back at each one tech.
Now if I reload we see no change and that by the way is a common source of error.
If you change your code here you need to restart your server because when you run your file if you run
node app J.S. It executes that file and if you thereafter change to code in there it doesn't automatically
read executed.
So we manually have to stop the server and rerun it with node aptly as if we changed the code.
Of course that's a bit cumbersome and later we'll see a more elegant method of handling this.
For now let's just restarted.
If I now reload here we see this looks like a H1 tag and indeed if we expect it in the browser dev tools
we see this is a H1 TAC here.
So this was sent back and interpreted as H2 mail by the browser.
Now if we don't want the browser to interpret this as H2 HTML we can call the set header method on the
response before we end and therefore send it and set the content type of all response body.
So of this data we're sending to let's say text plain.
This tells the browser dad what we're sending back should not be interpreted as something special but
as plain text.
So if we save dad and we restart and reload.
We see the HMO attacks here because this is output as some text my browser ramps as into some pre tax
here.
That's just something the browser does by default.
The magic really is the thing in between.
It's just interpret this text.
You can also see this by the way.
If you go to the network tab in the browser and you inspect the request which was sent there.
Here you CDU or L and the method.
And if you scroll down you see on the response header to content type plus set to text plain which causes
this way of rendering it.
Of course we can also set this to text age HTML to basically get the same behavior as before where if
we now reload this it is indeed rendered as h HTML because that is also what we're telling the browser
from our server.
Notice how we can sent back responses.
And if you're already wondering if this is the best possible way because writing H.M. code like this
certainly is not too nice if we're writing longer code then I can definitely comfort you.
This is not the final way of how we will write our code after all.
This is just no chance.
We haven't seen express yet before we see it though.
Let me give you one other reason why we might want to use it and for that let's actually write some
code which sends a post request to the server where we then want to extract data and then sent back
that data to the client let's say for that to be able to send a post request all trade a form element
here and then there have a input type text with the name of user name.
Just like that and a button create user.
Make sure you got your opening and closing tax write and that button will be of type.
Submit.
Now this is definitely not so readable.
I am aware of that.
It is all the HMO code we need to write here though so I'm doing it all in one line.
As I mentioned this is not the final way of how we will do this later.
Now if I save this and I restart my server and I visit this page again I see this input field and this
button styling is awful but it's also not what we're talking about here.
So does this fine Nova enter something here in a click Create user the browser by default sends a request
to the back and it sends a get request and appends to enter data as query parameters.
Now I don't want that default.
So I'll set the method to post which means the browser will now send up post request it will send it
to just our domain.
Now here in our request handler we can now check if request method is equal to post which means the
forum was submitted and then we want to extract that user name here and do something with it.
Maybe sent back a response where we render a dead user name and h1 tag.
Now how do we get that data out of our request though well first of all let's create a false case.
If we're not getting a POST request then I want to return this content here.
So now in the if branch I want to get the data which was part of the request because for a post request
the browser will automatically add dead user name here and the the user entered to the request bodies.
I want to extract this here.
Unfortunately there is no request body property or anything like that which would give us convenient
access to it.
Instead we have to register an event listener for the data event which means we're getting new data
because data is actually streamed into the server in chunks.
So we're actually getting it in chunks instead of one big chunk.
Now for it's such a small piece of data as we're having it here it probably is in one chunk but that's
not guaranteed so here.
I didn't get my junk data in this callback function which we have to provide to this event listener
and I will construct my body here.
Simple string to which I'll now add this chunk.
So I'm building up a string this chunky will actually be something which we can use as a string.
Now at some point will also be done passing data so we'll add another event listener actually in front
of the data event listener so that this is setup first.
It's not triggered immediately it's just registered immediately.
And there we'll have a callback function which is executed once the entire request body has been passed
once the entire request has arrived.
So once we have in the end built up our body now here I then have my body.
So for now let's just cancel locked body and look into it and also send back a response whereas for
now have just to age one tack which is empty or which is not empty but which doesn't have our body but
I say got the post request and now with that let's restart the server reload this page local five thousand
and send a number request.
Now I go to this page here which is great.
And on the server side we see does output user name equals manual.
So that's what's in my body.
After everything has been passed.
So here we can get the user name by taking our body splitting it on the equal sign split is a default
javascript method a way lable on strings.
This will give us an array with two elements.
First element is the part in front of the equals sign.
So a user name in this case.
Second element is the part after the equals sign menu.
That's the part I'm interested in so I access the second element with index 1 on the created array stored
in the user name.
And now here we can output the user name for Dad.
We could use template laterals or just concatenate a string like this.
And output the user name between the H1 tax here with that.
If we restart the server again so quit it and restart and we enter local those five thousand again don't
reload.
Just visit local those five thousand again.
We tried this one more time.
Now we see menu here.
Now this is a lot of work for sending responses and even more than that for handling incoming data.
And that's also the reason why we typically don't want to work with note J.S. only we could do that.
But just with vanilla javascript only in the browser that means we have to reinvent the wheel a lot.
We have to find a lot of creative solutions for problems like this when we need to data and therefore
it's not what I want to do here.
Instead let's have a look at the Express Chase and see how that can help us.